Name: Rishabh Prasad
SID: 2000389227


4.1 Code Review Plugin
	The code review process is established to evaluate the committed code to ensure it does not include bugs and is efficient. This constructive feedback is usually given by another person within the team to receive a secondary opinion on whether the code meets the desired requirements. Ideally, the code is reviewed by multiple reviewers to ensure the code is reviewed accurately. The code review process is critical as it identifies issues prior to your code being merged into the production and reduces the requirement to refactor code in the future. This is crucial as it is much cheaper to fix a bug in its early stages than it is when the developed code has been integrated into the system. As this process requires human interaction and time, it can be inefficient if performed incorrectly. Therefore, plugins can be introduced in the Github project to improve the efficiency of this process. Plugins standardize code reviews to ensure that each addition of code is checked diligently.
	DeepSource is a plugin which serves as a tool to automate the code review process. It is approved and endorsed by organizations such as NASA, Intel and Uber to ensure stability in the repository and to confirm that new additions of code does not introduce issues. It does this by automatically suggesting fixes for issues that it has identified by comprehensively analyzing the committed code. Then, within a pull request you are able to accept the suggestions with the click of a button as opposed to applying fixes manually. Some of the issues it identifies include anti-patterns, performance issues, security flaws and the potential introduction of bugs. On average these issues are identified within fourteen seconds for any given commit of pull request (DeepSource, 2021). This is beneficial as it takes a human significantly longer periods of time to achieve similar results. Efficiency in identifying issues allows the developer to provide fixes and improve the quality of the code effectively. As shown in Figure 4.1 below, DeepSource provides descriptive messages to inform the developer of the issue, and how to locate and apply changes efficiently. Implementing this plugin saves time and proves to be dependable to ensure the quality of the code being introduced into the program.

Figure 4.1 - Example of Descriptive DeepSource Message (DeepSource, 2021)
4.2 Code Quality Plugin
	Code quality is critical for the longevity of any given application. Implementing high quality code reduces long term costs of refactoring by reducing technical debt. This debt is accumulated by implementing code for short term goals in rapid development environments. It occurs when the quickest solution is implemented as opposed to the best one. The quality of the code can be maintained at a high standard during the code review process. As previously mentioned, this process can be accomplished by humans; however, it can be extremely inefficient if not performed diligently. To eliminate human error a plugin can be implemented to standardize this process as well. This will improve consistency throughout the code base while adding new code to the repository.
	The Code Inspector plugin believes in reducing this technical debt which can slow down the project's developmental process. This plugin assesses the quality of the code by identifying complexity, violation of guidelines, readability, security vulnerabilities as well as duplication of code. It is a growing platform which believes in creating sustainable code and motivates developers to follow the best practices of programming. Once the code is analyzed by Code Inspector, it provides code reviews and information metrics to visualize the health of your codebase. Following this, it generates an analysis report so that developers can identify the issues by severity and category. This is beneficial as the plugin holds the developers accountable to develop code with a high standard and quality in mind. It also compares your code with industry standards and provides cost estimates for technical debt by evaluating the time and money spent in development within the Github repository as shown below in Figure 4.2.

Figure 4.2 - Example of Technical Debt Analysis by Code Inspector (Code Inspector, 2021)
